welcome everyone to this week's ipld
sync meeting
it's august the 24th
2020 and as every week we talk
about the stuff that we've done last
week and plan to do next week
and then we does any engine items we
might have and i already see that we
have an antenna item that's great
um and yeah so um
i start with myself i don't have that
much to report
i got a bit of time on friday to work on
rust ipld
and i but not really working on any new
stuff but just reviewing your pr
um but that's a pretty big refactoring
one because it's using the
stuff that's not um heap allocating but
stick allocating
stuff for cds and multihash and also a
few other changes
um one interesting thing
for other implementers that um yeah
might be cool is
so um david a guy working on russ iphone
d
had an idea um about um
[Music]
codex so um in rust um it would be nice
or what we do is that you can
serialize directly from native rust
types
into a codec so let's say from native
thrust types directly to dexibor
and you can also directly go to deck
json or whatever you like
um but the problem is that sometimes you
don't know
where you actually want to go so you
first want to go to ipald so most
implementations first go from native
types to an ipld type and then from ipld
to
wherever and in rust you might want to
take this shortcut
but sometimes you don't and the problem
is that
in the past we had kind of different
apis to do those things so
either going directly or going through
the ipald intermediate step
and the idea he had was we create a
trade which is kind of like an interface
in other languages
and what you do is you implement this
trade
for the codec itself but you can also
implement the trade for
enum containing multiple codecs
so this way you can go now
directly from one spec native types to a
specific codec
or you implement this enum for ipld so
you basically have the same api
going from native types to ipld
and back or you have from native types
directly to a codec
that's kind of smart i think
and might work well and might also be an
idea for other languages that you kind
of
yeah combine an interface which can be
used by multiple codecs
or by a single coding it's kind of neat
um okay um yeah and next is what i try
to do is that
getting the changes from tiny multi hash
which is kind of a fork of rust multi
hash
get those changes upstream um into the
proper one
um yes yes that's all i have
um next on my list is peter
yeah i still have no idea this specific
update then to this meeting i'm going to
space with a lot of other people
on the falcon network we're starting
space race at midnight so
all right next is chris
hey guys uh i did not die
so i'm back from uh extended vacation
slash personal leave
i could fill you guys in more on that if
you want to know some point but
um i got a sign to build a
javascript graph sync library um
so that's what i started working on
today there's a link to the repo if
you're interested
um there is i don't know i don't know
how you guys do your dev process
normally or how you've done it but i did
actually create a requirements documents
and google doc
that if you have time and interest you
could look at it and provide
feedback um if you think there's
something missing especially if you
uh are familiar with graph sync i did go
over it with michael and
um scrubbed it a bit today so that's
there and i did start implementing some
things i do
i could use some help um just to kind of
get bootstrapped on the go graph sync
side of things on a few questions
i know michael said maybe peter or uh
eric could could fill in a few things so
if you guys have time i'd
get something on the calendar to do that
um since hannah's like super busy and
hard to kind of come down right now
so anyway that is my update
i do have an agenda item about this
multiple cids per block which will
probably be
controversial and shut down believe
someone understand so
we'll talk about later all right thanks
next is eric
hello hi by the way
sorry it's slightly late i've discovered
that my computer doesn't do
network time sync and it's seven minutes
off today because quartz clocks are
apparently
technology is wonderful so i worked on
some documentation this week
and there is a new primer document that
i wrote which is trying to be an
all-in-one
sort of like try to fit into one
contiguous page just scrolling the links
piece of reference material for what is
ipld what are all these things inside of
it
um this is currently residing in a
hackindy sort of scratch pad so
everybody can edit it
so go nuts if you're so inclined um
i'm not actually sure if i'm going to
try to work this into our formal
documentation or some offshoot of it or
like what the trajectory is for this um
because i want to keep it terse um i
don't necessarily want to evolve this
particular document and do a document
for everyone
it's actually too long already the way i
wrote in the first draft i think
and um so something that's slightly more
opinionated might be part of its future
but i'm not sure um i'm just trying to
like flesh out these different kinds of
documentation that we might need
we've got lots of rich things but i
think we need more
terse things too so i made a shot of it
anyway so feedback welcome
um i've got a pr out for adding a bunch
of new
tests and fixtures to the
schemas and the cogen stuff in go
i started using json for shorthand for
tests
which on the one hand gives me the
heebie-jeebies because that's kind of a
large dependency tree of other things
that you're assuming to work for your
tests
but um tests for all of our json stuff
do already exist
leaning just directly on the basic node
implementations and so
all this stuff can be tested without
there's no cycles in this dependency
graph
so if i had to bootstrap the whole thing
all over again it would still be a clear
like
progression so i think it's going to be
okay
and it saves a lot of line count
so these fixtures are also
like probing everything at once so you
give it like
a piece of json for the type of semantic
structure and you go to another piece of
json for the representation and it'll
like make sure that these both produce
the same data in memory and can go in
every
different direction so this is doing
more effective coverage with less
blended code
and i've already found a couple of bugs
with it so yay
um and the traversal package
in glenfield prime finally has a git
function
which just plain gets you the thing that
you asked for by path
as opposed to making you go through a
whole callback creative model
so people have been asking for that for
a while and i finally did it
long overdue and that's right
thanks and next on the list is uh ron
hello um mine was a light week
i took a little bit of time off i've had
some um
health issues but um i tied it up the
hampton amt work in far coin and handed
that over
um so that's out of my hands and they've
apparently
um assigned someone that will be taking
charge of those libraries which is great
and as you can see by my links in there
i've put links in the notes too it's the
work that i did
in pull request form um the hampt
finally got
moved over to the farcoin org which is
where it should live
to clear up any misconception that this
thing is a generic
thing
so that's that was good to hand that off
because it was a lot of work
um and um
they they said that they won't they
won't be accepting the
breaking block format changes um that
was
um objected to up the chain
because it's just too close to launch
which is fair enough it's um
that i think one of the biggest concerns
is now they're trying to build
uh a lot more integration type testing
for the
the whole system where uh you get
consistency ids for different operations
and they're
they're already working on live data so
breaking block format changes of stymies
all that
so that um anyway that's
fine i um i did that stuff because
it was it would be good to do but
it's all and i knew it was in their
hands and that was that's fine
uh but those changes may get
pulled in during the next major network
upgrade whenever that happens if ever
that happens
who knows how that process is gonna roll
out it'll be interesting to watch
but it's there for them um and i think
that would be good changes
um it does leave us though with the hemp
one of the aims with this work other
than
um just trying to improve it was to
pull it a little bit closer to what we
would produce
as a generic hemp to as an ipld offering
so that our work could more easily
overlap with theirs and so it would be
fairly simple for us to
have some code that could work for them
as well as for anyone else
and it wouldn't be a big leap between
ours and theirs
so all it means now is that theirs is
producing blocks that
don't really look quite like what we
would produce
but it's not the the distance is not
huge it's just
a little bit annoying so that's all
i i spent some time in javascript es
modules stuff
um converting some code and trying to
understand
michael's new stack and um
yeah there's a lot of pain to be had
there but
they were my major highlights for the
week
so thanks to one who doesn't have put
anything on the edge
on the list but michael do you have any
updates
yeah yeah yeah sorry i'm i'm like
bouncing back and forth between a
million things
um so earlier in the week earlier in the
week i really finalized the um
all of the esm migration stuff so we
have like actually good tooling now
there
that like really does the right thing
and it's pleasant to use
um and i migrated basically every module
that we have on esm
to that um so multi formats all the way
up through block and then all the things
that block
the depend on block as well and uh all
the way up to diagonally basically so
doug d i have a branch right now that
i'm working on
um where i'm doing that and then on
thursday i had the idea for this block
format
and then that captured all of my
attention for the rest of the weekend
and i won't get into that a ton now
because i actually prepared some slides
to go over and just talk about it in the
call
in a little bit so i'll let all the
other people finish their updates and
then
talk about the block format
all right so i guess
yeah so the most important thing i
forgot at the beginning is that
does anyone new want to introduce
himself
[Music]
i probably should um i got started today
my name is daniel i joined the ipld team
just to give a very brief introduction
as to what i do i mostly do go and open
source
so i know most of you are from other
backgrounds so i'm actually interested
in learning a little bit of rust maybe
someday but anyway all that i've done
today so far is really just getting set
up with the accounts and reading stuff
and tomorrow i hope to actually get into
some code
but that's pretty much it nothing else
for me
cool thanks um
all right um so yeah so we have an
engine item
so i guess so what should we do first
i guess first the agenda item and then
my click can do its presentation or
any preference
yeah let's do that yep okay so uh
chris yeah so
um i know we've kind of talked a bit
about um
compression and encryption in the past
and kind of one of the key objections
to it was it kind of breaks the content
addressability
and so kind of question comes up well
why not have um
you know i guess multiple cids we could
associate with a block
uh one that which is like a semantic cid
so that would be one works like
uncompressed
uh unencrypted but then you could have
other cids which refer to that same
block because it's like a lookup
mechanism
that would be the actual encrypted
or compressed version of it and so
if you think about it from a uh
you know from an existing tooling point
of view a lot of ipfs works with
basically
a single cid per block and so if you're
doing bit swap or
graph sync or something like that that
would could use the um
i guess as stored but we could i'm
actually i'm not sure exactly the best
way of doing it but
just the idea is this is that to allow
like different
identifiers kind of breaks content
addressability but it does allow
essentially the stored format to vary
depending um
independent of content but still keep
the content addressability in a sense
now that makes any sense but that's the
high level question idea
okay does anyone have any comments
because like i honestly have to
think about this like that like yeah
yeah does anyone have any
any thoughts now
we don't have a way with cids right now
to differentiate on that level
that would be my biggest concern is okay
i've got a cid
what is it for and cids are supposed to
have that information
maybe if cids had a mechanism or if we
use different codecs
to say this thing is a compressed
container of this other thing
maybe that would be reasonable because
it's not unreasonable if if you just
came with a codec for
just compressed or zip something
then maybe that's all it is but
but
i'm not sure what that buys you
yeah like uh for example graphing uh
is not really centered around um
like per cid round trips it does have
batching
and you know and things like that uh or
okay
in theory in spec it does like the way
go graphing works right now it's a
little bit more primitive than that but
that's not going to work uh so i guess
to echo
brad's question what does it buy you to
basically
have a a jumbo block or something in a
sense
to have a wet sorry a jumbo block
in a sense like you know with multiple
series yeah an intermediate
uh well so i guess what i'm thinking
about is that if you
have one block linked to another you
would
so let's just listen so we we all
understand the use case or the need for
encryption compression right and i think
the again the feedback always got was
that well you break
the content addressability so if you
link from one block to another
um you know think about this if you did
let's say
like what people do today is that
they'll encrypt content and then stick
it in ipfs
well then you kind of lose all of your
link ability because now your
links are encrypted in that block and to
actually traverse them
you have to decrypt the block because
it's not going to work with things like
graph sync or anything else really
um and and so
you know the idea is like well what if
we had uh like a semantic
like the way it is today there is no
encryption or compression everything and
so if you link from one block to another
you would still use essentially the
unencrypted
uncompressed cid to link between blocks
but then um and so you could you could
traverse the graph that way
but then uh underneath it's actually
could be stored compressed or encrypted
and therefore
moved from one um
ipfs node or one node to another
preserving that compression or
encryption not have to actually undo it
or decompress de-encrypt
send over the network re-encrypt
re-compress
i know it's kind of abstract and i need
to think about it more but i just kind
of
wanted to throw it out there because
like i said i keep when we talk about
this in the past i keep bumping the fact
that we break
the content addressability and so um
to kind of preserve the content
addressability it's almost like you need
different identifiers different ways
identifying the same
block one which is like i said the
semantic or uncompressed
unencrypted version and then the one
where it's actually on disk
the way we've talked about um one of the
ways we've talked about encryption
before
is to essentially have a a
block that presents itself as a uh
as an opaque container and
to navigate it you need extra
information
but it presents itself as a normal block
and when you read it you you have to
apply
some logic which is where advanced data
layouts come in
so if you if you read a block and you
and you know that it needs some kind of
logic then
it goes through the adl pipeline which
is starting to exist in go and then
in in there you apply the logic which
inserts a key and does some encryption
then presents the real
the real block format um in there and so
in that sense you would have sort of
what you're getting at but you don't
need that second cid
um it's the cid is the idea of the
encrypted data it's just that
to read into it you need extra logic
one of the problems we have with
encrypted blocks in particular is the
it's because all the links are all
hidden inside
the encrypted data you don't you you
break the graph unless you can
um unless you can encrypt it every
uh decrypted every stage and it's not
and and if you if you're just an
intermediate storage
service that is just storing them and
you know and
you want to do some sort of graph sync
uh exchange
then unless you're given the key you
can't do that full thing
and so we did throw around some ideas of
of where you could
you could extract links that are not
sensitive uh outside of the encrypted
container
uh and so you present the block with
some you know a link section
and then the encrypted payload and so
you could still traverse enough of the
graph
and for some use cases that would work
just fine because the links section
would just be a graph of all these
encrypted blocks and they'd only
expose enough information to be useful
but there are other use cases where
links are going to be sensitive like you
might be linking to some particular
external source that actually gives away
what you're encrypting
or gives a suggestion about it so this
is this um
leakage of information so it's it's a
bit of a hard problem to solve but
and as this we did we did talk about the
same thing working with compression but
it gets so sloppy within compression it
really does get messy when you're
pulling compression into the block layer
um it's so much that it messes up
particularly particularly for
compression algorithms that are not
deterministic which is something that
we've been
talking a lot about recently um is is
there really
a solid compression algorithm algorithm
that that is
that is actually provides compelling
results that is deterministic
uh there's there's plenty of them that
are that provide
you know okay results small amount of
compression
and they're fast and they're
deterministic but
would you bother using them if you if
you actually wanted compression
you'd reach for something that can do
decent sized compression a lot of those
are not deterministic
you're you're stealing michael stander
no
yeah that's right and yeah i'm just
gonna say like like
just to show kind of how data specific
this is right like
i've been experimenting with this new
block format and one of the advantages
is that the links and the values and the
structure in different sections
so you can actually compress them
separately and kind of play with that
and you get the links which are just
hashes and aren't going to compress well
and you know that out of the way
but even if you look at like the file
plane chain data none of the value data
in the file coin chain compresses very
well it's like
a maximum i think of like three percent
um
and so that's just like not actually
worth taking the parsing and decoding
time
and that's probably because most of
those bite values are like public keys
or something right like it's all like
actually encrypted fight data
um so you do have like these incredibly
domain specific
like compression needs and then yeah
i mean i'll talk about my block format a
little bit but you can start to actually
program these into the data structures
if you have a block format that has a
natural compression scheme
yeah and i know uh i won't use much i
just want to throw that id
out there but and i'm sorry i'm kind of
like brainstorming it on the fire
because i haven't
fully thought it out but one i'll just
close up with this
um it just kind of occurred to me that
maybe
the right way to solve this is at the
transport layer
and so from a
from a client point of view you're
always working with the cid
but there's some optimization of the
transport layer if i want to basically
move
encrypted block from point a to b or
compress block from point a to b
that's purely transfer negotiation but
in the end once i start
working with it directly it's the the
full content dress way i think
um and right i mean one thing i don't
necessarily agree with i think that you
can have deterministic compression
um it's an area that's been and i've
done a lot of work with compression
in my career so i know a lot about it so
i don't know why we i
think i understand why we think that's
not deterministic but it's
it's more about just controlling the
implementation as opposed to
yeah say like algorithms like depression
just isn't deterministic because it
because it is it's just code it's got
control
you have to control it such that it's
not um you know like there's no random
number that's part of compression it's
it's uh there are parameters and there
are certainly different strategies you
can implement for a given
compression format but that can all be
controlled just by controlling
well but my biggest concern there it
comes from this stuff we're trying to
make even dag seaboard
uh fully deterministic um is that
you went compression algorithms
generally provide you
with many ways to uh
compress the same data that will
decompress with the same algorithm
so the the the decompression side is
this is the asymmetrical thing that goes
on where
the decompression will look at it and
say yeah i can decrypt that
i can decompress that and um whereas on
the compression side you can choose
any number of ways to compress the data
in
into a format that the decompression
will be happy with um
and so we we end up with this problem of
the
same data many cids um and what we want
to do is reduce
that possibility so if we were to spec a
compression
into our formats like michael is trying
to do
it would have to be a way where there's
only one way to
decompress and sorry one way to compress
and one way to decompress
and and if you were to and on the
decompression side
you ideally should be able to verify
that it was compressed in that one way
whether that's it had a the same
dictionary
or the same parameters for the algorithm
you'd want to be able to say yes
this has gone through that one way and
it's not
it's it's not some same data that i've
already seen before just to compress
with slightly different parameters
um we want to minimize that as much as
possible so that
you know actually we want to eliminate
it if possible um
but we're finding that even hard to do
with just dag cbo
this is like a nice transition point but
i'll get into this a little bit
um one of the cool things that i've been
noticing is um okay so first of all as
i've been writing this block format
it's in order to be deterministic you
have to only ever have one way of doing
something right like you cannot have
variability you can't have optionality
it has to always be the same way
um but that is like no variability in
the structure
and if the structure itself supports a
certain form of compression
what you end up doing is just adjusting
your data structure to fit that
and then you don't end up with
algorithms changing the deterministic
representation
right because the representation that
you spit out is going to be chunked
differently and is therefore
actually different data like if you have
a different array of bytes
right that is literally different data
it is deterministically different
and what a lot of these algorithms are
doing is figuring out what the layout
should be of the data in order to
compress it into a table
right whereas if if you separate that
from the actual format and you say like
oh no we only have one way to encode an
array of bytes
and it is deterministic but we will
compress and
do we will duplicate every one of those
bytes now all of a sudden like you can
write multiple
decompression algorithms that all spit
out
different data structures but each one
of those data structures can be
deterministically serialized and
deserialized
does that make sense
here actually here this is a good this
is a good point to actually start the
talk because then
here i'll show you i'll show you this
new block format because it'll all make
sense towards the end
one quick comment it's real quick so
one of the general things i think is
that doing some compression any
compression is better than doing
zero compression i think that's one kind
of rule of thumb i've lived by
um and heard many people say and so i
think it's not about having the most
effective compression algorithm but just
doing some and actually
hires compression algorithms that are
very fast
um like like deflate extremely fast
you can almost do a mem copy speed um so
uh
it would be good rather than doing like
gzip level nine just doing jesus level
one is like better than like nothing so
anyway i'll hand it over to and i think
those those simple formats tend to be
the most deterministic as well because
they're actually simple algorithms
yeah but but again like i tested this
against the file coin chain data
and even there like it's only three
percent because that data is just not
really actually compressible because
it's all like cryptographically
generated
so it just does not it's actually not
worth it it literally is not better than
doing nothing because it takes twice as
long to serialize it to serialize
and that's not worth the three percent
gain on the block format
yeah i just just one thing uh specific
on the comment that some comparison is
better than no compression
if you do uh deflate or
gzip one then you cannot do a gzip nine
anymore over that so there is
a point definitely the trade-off of if
you compress you can press once you
cannot
double compress or anything like that
yeah you don't double compress but
i mean i'd say i'd argue actually
michael um that
your file coin watching data is already
compressed
so i'm talking about just basically no
i'm just using var ends everywhere so
it's like it's going to compress
fairly well no no no i'm talking i'm
talking about just
the raw data out of file coin like
decoded into seabor and then round
tripped into my thing so like i shave
more bytes than three off of it
because of other things i do in the
block format i'm saying just the
difference when i took the value data
and compressed that
that only like lessened it by three
percent
yeah all right and this is gonna this is
gonna be use case dependent like
if you take the average ipfs data which
is a website
then you're gonna actually get some
benefit from there
right right um okay all right
i haven't even named this yet okay all
right zdag all right so
i had this idea on thursday and then i
didn't
stop working on it since um
but effectively so it's a block
structure that looks like this
you have a links header and a values
header and then the actual structure of
the data
so you front load the links and then you
basically have all the value information
and then just the structure print out so
the link
encoding looks like this so you first
you sort it
based on like a cid specific sorting
algorithm so that we can then
um so first of all there's no delimiter
between these because we know what the
decoding rules are for cids so the only
delimiter that we need is a null byte at
the very
end of the link setter and then
because we sort them all this way we can
then shave
all of the prefix bytes off of every
different cid type
and since you only put these in here
once
this is effectively a compression table
so now whenever you refer to these cids
and the rest of the structure
it only takes one or two bytes depending
on the container format
because it may or may not need typing
information
we do the same thing with the values we
take all the values we should we sort
them first by length
and then by byte comparison and then
when we store them
uh in that values header we we put the
length in front but we put the increase
in the length
so if you look at this this is four
because the it's increased from zero and
then it's zero because this one
is only four again and then six length
gets two
um this keeps the actual length integers
in the values header
low and actually compresses even the
representation in the table down a
little bit further
um and you as you parse this you need to
validate its determinism the length is
easy but you also need to do the by
comparison
because you will rely on the
deterministic sorting of the values
header later on
um and some stuff that we'll get into so
if you look at the structure so here's
just like a simple list
um so numbers under 100 don't conflict
with my token space
so they're just uh inlined basically and
then numbers
over 127 are also uh are just barrens
basically
so you we inline most numbers without
any additional typing information
um only some stuff in the token space is
taken up um so that's what a list looks
like
we omit the trailing delimiter when uh
it's a root structure
also when there's no links or yeah when
there's no links or values
we can also drop the null bytes with
some extra rules as well
so i've been shaving a lot of bytes off
of this format as you can see
um here's like a list inside of a list
right um so 109
one 109 and then two three and then then
delimiter and then we
again we can omit the trailing delimiter
because we know that the root structure
is a list
so that's that's pretty nice like we get
like a nested list here with three
values
uh for six bytes um
uh you see null true false are also
constants that show up in here
this is what that serialization looks
like for for that kind of a list
um okay let's look at some footsteps so
um this has no links in it so we get a
zero byte
um to delimit the links um this header
value is wrong sorry that shouldn't
be 12 not 10. um so then we see five for
the offset then we get
hello in binary than zero because the
next one is also five
in the world then we say that it's a map
then
the i'm playing around right now and
poking at the map
offset rules so some of them in this
example may be a little bit different um
so this is so the map is basically first
the offset for the key in the map right
so
that's uh from one and it's um
i'll talk a little bit later but like
the first key in a map
is always offset by one and you have a
separate
token for empty maps and this is so that
um
every subsequent key or sorry every
subsequent key reference
is an increase in the offset from the
first one
and so it literally conflicts with the
trailing null delimiter to end the map
so it's impossible to actually write out
indeterministic maps you rely on the
deterministic order of the table
and then you only see the increases here
and you actually have a rule that means
that you can't even parse
um in deterministic maps which is great
then you see that you also have the
value index obviously
this is actually this example is wrong
because this is an untyped map so that
should have been
there should have been a trailing um uh
string right there so it should have
been something like 103 or something
like that
and then the one that's sorry i
literally wrote these like late at night
um
but um here so this is like you know
what what a more complex object with
more values and
you can see that like the compression
starts to set in here so
you know i'm referring to the same
strings again and so they're just going
to be deduplicated down here and they're
not going to take up a ton of extra
space
but this is this is something that i'm
just working on now so this is
typed lists and maps so when you have a
typed
list or a map um you you can
drop that uh the typing um
prefix from it and then you get a much
more compact space
so here we have a string type list so
this is just going to be like all the
values
i don't have the new uh oh no this is a
list so it's always
um yeah it's always the the
index plus one so that uh you can use a
trailing zero to limit it
with these typed lists but that means
that now like the
the compression space for a typed list
when you don't vary the typing and lists
and maps
is actually really really small um like
we can get really effective
representations
um and an idea that i had after talking
to rod
actually is that um for the rule set
for parsing out these references
um we can actually say
he just killed his own you never know
what we can actually say
okay okay sorry sorry i i messed that up
sorry
uh yeah yeah so i like i hit the wrong
button to end the presentation and
actually exit that thing
so anyway i'm talking way too fast
because i'm very excited about this
but um yeah anyway what you end up with
are like these just very efficient
representations so
my testing on the file coin chain is
that this is going to reduce it by like
when i'm all said and done about ten
percent i think like i think we're going
to shave about 10 percent off a deg
seabor
um and that's not really taking
advantage of any of this deduplication
right like nothing like none of that
data has any duplicate cids or
binary values in it like the only
savings that you're really getting on
that 10
is just the efficient more efficient
representation
of the links and of um some of the other
bytes that i'm able to shave off the
format leveraging the determinism
um but you can
now that you know this feature exists
right if you know that you can
always de-duplicate um you can do stuff
like uh write domain-specific
compression algorithms
so you can start to like chunk up your
data and alter your data structure
so that you always leverage this due
duplication because you know that like
so if you keep the ta if you keep the
the value table and the
or the link table below a hundred um or
sorry not below 100 below 255.
um all of the addresses are going to be
one byte for the whole table
once you go over 255 then it's a far end
so it can be a little bit bigger
but we basically have like this maximal
space for that table
and when you work your way through it
like you can really start to design some
crazy data structures
that um are are super compact because of
just how they leverage this compression
inside of the block format
and the nice thing about it is that like
all of these domain specific algorithms
for how to how to lay out the algorithm
are specific to the application the
block format will just decode all the
time
um like without knowing any of those
algorithms another really cool thing is
that because you're putting all of these
in a constant table
the uh the reduction in the size of the
block
from the deduplication is also
translated into the memory overhead when
you parse the structure
because when you parse them they're also
going to come out as constants and then
just references back so they're always
going to be pointers
unlike when you go through like json or
cbor every time you see a string you
always turn it into a new string and
then you have two of those in memory
unless you like think to go and check
those and de-duplicate them right
um so yeah like it is kind of crazy
because
what it really is is it's it's a block
format as a compression table
right it is like a block format that um
you can program with ipld to compress
the data
representation and so you can just like
do very
different things with it than we thought
about doing them in the past right
um and like when i take like the
optimization that the raw gave me the
idea for um
and and some other things like you can
take a subset of this and just say okay
we have a byte type list and then just
references to the table
so now it's just like a very good
generic container format
for any domain specific compression
algorithm
that would be fully transactional so you
don't need if you're not going to do a
streaming algorithm for compression
you can almost always write a more
efficient compression algorithm
that uses this block structure and then
you just get back like an array of bytes
that you put together
and so you could you could literally
like write a standard word that's just
now a general
compression format and you just decode
the spikes right and then for us
those things are always going to decode
as valid fbl segments
so you can use them as an fbl you can
stick them inside of other fbls and they
just
they just work
it'd be great to see some more examples
and i think
just to work it through um one thing
that
i've been working on is something called
sebor ld so cbor
linked data where you uh it's using
pivoting off of jsonld where you can
create
int as keys based on an external library
there's a great discussion about this at
the ietf working group seaboard working
group
just like two three weeks ago the
challenge is that you need to have
a cryptographic hash in order for that
external library and then right now the
ordering of the
the the key the attributes is the of the
ins is basically
determined by the serialization
algorithm and
so if you throw a different dictionary
in there you actually can offset it and
since we're dealing with cryptographic
material you can actually like in most
cryptographic libraries
take null and validate null as true or
valid
so there's a big vulnerability right now
we're trying to sort of work through and
i'm suggesting using cids
as the link for the external library
yeah i mean that's that's a really good
idea i don't like one of the things that
that messes me up a little bit about
external tables
is that they really mess with the
determinism of the data structure that
comes out right because you can take the
same data structure and then apply a
different table
and then you'll effectively end up with
the same semantic data out but it'll be
a different hash for the block format
right and so the nice thing about this
is that the only information that is
ever compressed
is is in the block and so it is fully
deterministic to the block data
so you there's no way to take different
block data and get a different hash
for the block out of it ever
right
but that is a limitation on the
compression because
you may not want all of your compression
table uh or the low end of your
compression table
to be really small strings there are
like efficiency reasons why you may not
want to do that right
and you don't really have the ability to
tweak that because it's
deterministically ordered so it's not
like
always the best compression table
but it is like a the best like
deterministic conversion table
there's a couple of interesting
properties that um i've been trying to
think through
that need more thought um about this
one is the ability to validate a schema
pretty efficiently if you just jump to
the structure section
um i think there's enough information
there to validate against any of our
scheme
any of our ipld schemas um so if you
were
if you were some intermediate party that
didn't care about the contents of a
block but needed to perform some kind of
validation
uh perhaps you were a loader that needs
to
feed data into some adl or something and
all you care about
is is this thing valid then you should
be able to skip to
the structure section and just pass that
and there's no extraneous you know bites
that you need to skip over it's all
structure
and then that should be able to match
against the schema or not
and you should be able to do fairly fast
schema validation if you
built that in at the lowest level that's
the catch is that
that kind of validation would need to be
built in at that lowest level where you
could
get into there well there's a real
opportunity to do that though right
because one of the things that you want
to do is that
you want about like you want to be able
to validate the block is
valid without parsing everything out of
it right yeah and so
like with this you can actually run over
the structure and do a validation just
to make sure that it is like a valid
um z-dag block right you like know that
it's now ability to block it didn't do
anything
bad it actually parsed correctly and
then if you have typing information that
you care about inside of that structure
you can validate it at that time without
ever taking any of the byte values and
converting into strings
um unless you specifically need to do a
traversal
through a string map key then you would
have to
you would have to parse that um but most
validation you can actually do
without that and there's some other
crazy stuff you can do too like
if you want to check if a path is in is
in there
and the the map doesn't have any keys in
it that match the length of the first
one you don't even have to parse the
string out
right like you you already know that it
that it's not in that block
so there's a lot of like stuff that you
get out of um and also if you're doing a
block to reversal
and you're just traversing to get a
value out you can do that without
like most parsing right like you you can
just parse through your path
um and then you would only end up
converting
any of the strings out of the out of the
value table
um if they're the map keys you traverse
into or if they're the final values
the other interesting property that is
interesting for our schemers is that the
the format makes i think all of our
union types um fairly cheap
compared to what we have now with
particularly json but also cbore
so it's so you do get a saving for using
a kind of union but the rest of them are
not that much more expensive than a kind
of union
to do in this format because you you
brush away
a lot of the extraneous data to like
with a keyed union
the key sort of is brushed somewhere
else
and it doesn't even matter how big the
key is um it's
that's why you still have yourself the
story of the key though i mean you do
have to throw them
yes but but with kind of with with
unions you tend to have repeating keys
and so like in the hampt
you've got up to 32 uh elements with
exactly the same key
in a keyed union and you don't have to
store that once
um whereas with dag cbo and jason
you have to repeat it um but if you can
just extract that out
then it's you save and because and
that's the nature of unions is they tend
to be repeatable structures that you are
using again and again in your in your
data so
one of the things that i definitely hit
upon here is that because we don't
type the map keys we get to save that
byte
and so for us a map uh
key as a string is the same as if it
were a byte or an integer right it's not
taking up any extra
space because we don't actually relay
any typing information
so that's actually quite nice um we're
not hitting any of that stuff
but one thing that i will mention though
is that this does give you an incentive
to use maps or lists that are
always the same type so so yes it it
like when you're when you're doing the
map or tuple representations
for structs and you have mixed types we
definitely shave down the size of that
and make them pretty comparable
but if you're using a tuple
representation
struct and all of the things in it are
the same type
then it's going to get way smaller
actually because we literally get to
shape all of those type prefixes
i it'd be also just to see some of these
examples because i think the example you
showed was basically you're saying
beginning of list end of list
and so but i think in the proper sea
board that looking at the
raw block storage you basically have to
state how
long it's actually converted to an array
and it's to prepend
how large that array is yeah yeah yeah
we don't yeah i don't do that because um
for for a couple reasons but one is just
that it's smaller
um because the length is going to
often be larger than zero so if zero or
a one byte field is going to be my
delimiter
then putting a length in would be bigger
so there's just no point
yeah but i think actually your ipld spec
states that there's
no um infinite size or undetermined
list sizes you have to basically state
this is
uh an int array of size 10.
that's right but but we don't enforce it
no no
no no hold on the way that the data
model works is the data model only comes
into play
after the codec is being done parsed so
the parser can always tell you how big
the the length of the array is because
it'll be done parsing it by the end
it doesn't need to be in the block
format right like we know we know that
it's not we know that it's not an
infinite length because the block has an
end
so so we definitely know that and by the
time that you get it back from a parser
it will have a fixed length for sure
yeah this is this is goes back to that
thing before with compression that i was
talking about
um johnny the our current seaborg
uh decoders i don't know about that go
maybe eric's is more restrictive but um
they will accept
uh indefinite size lengths and then just
give you the thing at the end whereas
when we encode
our encoders will do the size up front
so the encoders always do the same thing
but the decoders are sloppy and so they
will they will present you with data
that looks exactly the same but it has a
different cid because it was encoded
slightly differently so
if somebody produces a a an encoder say
in in
rust you know you're working on with
survey and baby survey does indefinite
size length
elements they will be decoded properly
but if we do a round trip we'll get a
different cid and that's the problem we
keep on battling with with
seaboard there's so many ways to do just
simple things
um that it just it gets crazy and so
one nice thing about defining a new
format is that we get to say no there's
only one way of doing that thing
you know you can't do it there's no
variability here you can't do ins of
different sizes
no it's all one way um so
that's that's an opportunity here and uh
and one more
and just one more point uh on indefinite
size
lists if you combine them with
compression
you actually don't know how big your
block is
yeah but like uh i mean the nice thing
about only having one way to do things
is that you can like
just brutally shave bites off of the
format because you don't need because
the lack of variability means less
tokens and less differentiation
and uh and also like the crazy thing i'm
getting into
is that um it also allows for less um
token conflicts with valid data so
um like like one example is that like in
my opinion
being able to encode a 0.0 float
is a bug in the determinism because that
is effectively the same value
as an integer and in a lot of dynamic
languages it won't round trip properly
because it's the same thing like you're
talking about the same thing you've just
typed it in the block format
rather than typing it in like the data
model layer above the block format and
converting it if you need a float or an
image or whatever
um so similar to varance right like
avara
it's encoded in whatever the smallest
space is and if you need it to be 64-bit
you convert it to a 64-bit integer right
like that that's what we do in the
encoding there
the same thing is here too we're like
you're not allowed to do floats
that are 0.0 um and in fact they will
not parse or validate because we
need to use that zero byte for other
things
um like yeah yeah
and that's why yeah yeah i i
just want to mention what i also
mentioned to
michael earlier today because there's a
fi there's a format already existing
which is almost the same thing
and it's called fleas i post a link um
and i it's on my to-do list to implement
this in rust for
like the past i don't know six years or
something but now that michael came up
with this
i think i have to do it because i'm
pretty sure it has
almost the same properties so um
of course it can't store cids because
it's not built
so it's basically a format which is made
for general json data
but more efficient and also but like a
slightly different goal was there was
that you can easily traverse the data
without
the need to deserialize everything so
you can easily hop
through the data basically to deeply
nested things quickly without
divisionalizing all the stuff
um but yeah just yeah
yeah so the reason why i don't think
that that's
that necessarily the feature for this is
just because it is so
cheap to parse through the structure
because all you ever hit
are instant variants that you're
checking for all of the token space and
anything that can come out of it
and then you're actually able to skip
over anything that you don't care about
yeah right so it's actually like like
really simple to get
like it's it's really not very costly to
get from 0 to 100 in the index so you
don't really need
like the skip list functionality
but yeah i can see how that would be
really useful if you were inlining
um anything ever right like i i only
like that's only that efficient because
we
we never have a large value there that
doesn't get parsed like
on its own but anyway i'm looking
forward to do a comparison because now i
have a reason to actually implement this
thing in rust
also like another thing that i think is
really important is like we have a lot
of numbers
all over the place in our data
structures and so um i really
wanted the number format to be as
compact as possible so
everywhere that you parse a value var
ends basically get inlined and then the
token space just
if you if you do a var that can flick
some with the token space then you you
get a penalty byte
but most integers are just completely
inline without any additional typing
information needed to be in front of
them
okay we are almost out of time
anything else from anyone
i guess a real quick question for
michael before i have to run uh
what is next step like how
ready is this to you know to implement
in all the things to put in the falcons
watching
[Music]
no no it needs like tests and
like needs to feel somewhat done before
you start like saying that people should
use it for real things
um we don't want to take black form
that's philly
and also like i don't want to stabilize
on this until we're done
actually working on the format um so i
have like at least a few weeks
of just poking at it and tweaking things
and seeing how many
bytes i can shave off of different
pieces and experimenting with different
um uh data structures and stuff like
that like i i have a few
things that i want to run into it um to
see how efficient um a lot of the table
stuff is before i move forward so
there's a bunch of just like
more i mainly wanted to get on the
bridge radar because it changes the way
that we think about how to create some
of our data structures
if we potentially have this compression
in the future
um and there's just like it's a it's a
good thing to have on people's radar
uh but i don't think that we're gonna be
ready to actually move stuff to it for
for a while
um i think maybe in like a month or so
we might wanna look at doing another
implementation
um by then like i should have actually
like stabilized the format
i mean like i've only been working on it
three days so i've broken the format
every day and like change things and
move them around
um and you know there's stuff like like
the token space is not in the exact
right position that i wanted to be in so
at some point i've got to like decide
how many tokens i'm going to have and
then i'm going to like fix it to that
space right
and i'm going to decide where i want the
token so that i can do better math and
things like that
okay then i closed the meeting so
thanks everyone for attending and see
you all next week
bye everyone bye